---
title: Self Help
tags:
- self
- help
- personal
- development
---

# Self Help

<TagLinks />


## Self Help Industry trap

> Self help industry $ 13.6 billion by 2022, 5.6% average yearly gains

* Action Faking
  * reading about how to start a business, but never opening one
  * ordering business card instead booking a sale on phone
* [Personality Development](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Personal_development)
* Artificial motivation, artificailly induced motivation
  * the next big business model to achieve financial freedom
  * unlocking your charismatic self
  * some meditation trick that will unlock your 3rd eye
* Have I consumed more than I have put into action?
* Be watchful, that you are still not living in a bubble. Reality may burst that bubble
* Actual meaningful things are created through struggle
* hustle culture
  * Instagram entrepreneurs
  * Fake gurus
  * humble bragging
  * What are you working hard for? What your WHY?

## Truth of Money

* 68% of the wealthy were self made

::: tip Equation of money
Equation taught to you in school $Money = Salary \, from \, job$

Equation in capatalist society $Money \propto Percieved \; Value$
:::

* Footballers are overpaid, whats the market?
  * matches and merchandise
  * enough demand?
* Value generated by a cleaner (could be replaced by anyone), accountant (lynchpin)
* How to generate value?
  * Solve problems
* What problems does site like amazon solves?
  * Hassle going to market to order
  * Home delivery
* Listen to people, they always have problems? Then decide is it worth solving

## Data  Brokers

> $200 billion Industry

* Selling data points
* Look for patterns
  * UK Cambridge Analytica
* You data is not yours anymore
* GDPR - EU regulation passed in 2016 to protect personal data
* 


### Resources

* [The Untold Truth About Money: How to Build Wealth From Nothing](https://youtu.be/6mRbDEtDoyA)


<Footer />
